In this course, I'm going to use Firebase which is like a managed server solution by Google.
Now on Firebase, we can basically build a real back-end
but without creating the whole NodeJS server from scratch which we don't want to do here because this
is no NodeJS course, we want to focus on progressive Web Apps and that mostly happens in the browser.
So with Firebase, we can easily set up a back-end which offers us a database, file storage and even the
possibility to run some code and build our own restful endpoints, so it offers everything we need
and under the hood, it will use NodeJS. The best thing about it is for the scope of this course,
you can absolutely use it for free,
it has a free tier plan,
we can check this under pricing
and the quotas, the limits you have in that plan are more than enough for what we're going to do in this
course.
So the good thing is, you can set this up, use that, it will really run in the Internet but you don't pay
anything
and with that, let's go to the console to sign-in,
you need a Google account for that.
Now once you are signed in, you're on this starting dashboard. Now you might not have any projects yet,
I already have some but I'll simply create a new project by clicking on add project.
Now there, you can choose any name,
I'm going to name mine pwagram and then you can choose a region. The region here can simply be
the country you're located in,
it doesn't affect where this project runs
so you don't pick where the server is at here.
Then you click create project to, well set this project up and this can take a couple of seconds and
then you will be taken to the Firebase console.
This is the dashboard for your project,
it can look overwhelming at the start but in the end, it's really easy to use.
On the left here, you have all the options or all the features of Firebase, as you can see there are plenty
of them, we'll use the database and storage to store images,
we'll also host our application on Firebase later to really see it run in the web and we'll use cloud
functions to create our own restful endpoints we can send data to. Now for now, I only want to use
the database and storage because that's all I need,
well for now.
So let's start by clicking on database here
and the first thing we should do here for the purpose of this course is open it up.
These rules you have here under rules tab define who can read and write to the database.
Now normally, this is restricted to authenticated users,
we don't use authentication here though,
you could of course add it but it's not really related to creating a progressive web app,
you use it in the same way in every web app.
So therefore what I'll simply do is I'll switch this check if we are authenticated just to true which
gives us read access. I'll later also do this for
write
to make sure we can write without being authenticated.
Again, this is just for the demo purposes in this course, in a real project,
you probably have some form of authentication. So with that, we ensure that we can read our database and no worries,
I will show you how you access your database soon,
let's now go to data and populate our database with some data.
The Firebase database you see here doesn't work with tables or anything like that,
instead what we have is a JSON structure,
so like JSON data, so it should be really easy to understand since it basically looks like a Javascript
object.
It's empty at the beginning but we can easily add a new node by clicking on the plus here
and I want to name this first new node posts because this should store a couple of posts below it.
Now once we set up this, you can click on the plus again to add a sub-node below that posts node and
there,
I want to have my first post. This is basically like a unique ID of the post,
you could enter a number here, a random string or simply something you can easily understand like first
post,
then I'll nest even more data below that first post.
So what should be inside that post?
I want to have a URL to an image I can display,
maybe also store the ID in here, though we would have it at the top level and also store like a location
and then the title of the post,
this is basically what I want to show in my application later.
So we'll have an image and I'll enter a dummy value here for now,
later we'll replace it with a real link and then I can click add
and now we can add more data to that first post by clicking the plus next to it again
and also enter a title, like awesome trip to SF because I'm going to upload a San Francisco picture
because I've been there recently.
Now the next thing I want to store here is the location, the location could also be another nested
object with coordinates or for now, just a string, like in San Francisco. So this is what I'll add here
and I'll add one more item,
it's kind of optional, I'll name it ID and this can be first post here too.
So basically the same as we have here, could also be different one, I'll choose this one.
So this is now my first post and the data piece
I want to work with in this application.
Now feel free to add more of course,
I will now upload an image, so that we have something to display. The storage tab here or the storage
area also uses rules, by default,
you don't need to change these,
upload is only permitted to authenticated users
and if you're working in this console here, you are treated as authenticated and reading is also allowed
to authenticated users but there is a special way we can access the users anonymously too and we'll use
that way.
So now I want to upload a file and I'll just use that San Francisco picture I already used as a dummy in
the project.
So I'm in the complete guide folder here which is our project and there in the source folder under
images,
I have that San Francisco picture which I took from a boat, I'll simply upload this. So this will upload it to
Firebase storage and there if I click on that on the right under file location, you will see this download
URL.
Now if you click on it, you copy it and now if you open it in a new tab, you can load it anonymously
because here I am just accessing it just as everyone else could access it.
This is the URL
I want a store in my database now,
so this download URL.
So back in the database for the image, I'll now replace the free access here with that URL.
So this is now updated
and now we have that URL stored and the good thing is whenever we fetched the data, we can
simply use that URL for example in an image tag or as a background image in CSS and I will automatically
fetch that without us adding any more code. So this is the set up I want to use for now
and with that, we get a back-end set up.
Now in the next lecture I want to connect our front-end to this Firebase back-end by making HTTP requests
to fetch that data.